hi,hello this about vegeta prince of all saiyans 
This article is about the Dragon Ball character. For the condiment, see Vegeta (condiment). For other uses, see Vegeta (disambiguation).
Vegeta
Dragon Ball character

Vegeta, as drawn by Akira Toriyama
First appearance	Dragon Ball chapter #204 Sayonara, Son Goku, January 7, 1989 (Weekly Shōnen Jump 1989)
Created by	Akira Toriyama
Voiced by	Japanese
Ryō Horikawa
English
Christopher R. Sabat (Funimation/Crunchyroll)
Brian Drummond (Ocean)
In-universe information
Species	Saiyan
Title	Prince of all Saiyans
Spouse	Bulma
Children	Trunks
Bulla
Relatives	King Vegeta (father)
Tarble (brother)

Tights (sister-in-law)
Abilities	Super strength
Super speed, agility, reflexes
Stamina
Healing
Flight
Energy sensing
Energy projection
Energy absorption
Durability
Telepathy
Telekinesis
Teleportation
Vegeta (Japanese: ベジータ, Hepburn: Bejīta) (/vəˈdʒiːtə/ və-JEE-tə), fully referred to as Prince Vegeta IV (ベジータ 王子 四世, Bejīta-ōji Yon-sei),[1] is a fictional character in the Dragon Ball franchise created by Akira Toriyama. Vegeta first appears in chapter #204 "Sayonara, Son Goku", published in Weekly Shōnen Jump magazine on January 7, 1989,[2] seeking the wish-granting Dragon Balls to gain immortality.

Vegeta is the prince of an extraterrestrial warrior race known as the Saiyans. As a person, he is naturally blunt, regal, and hard-working; he often refers to his heritage and royal status throughout the series, but can also have negative traits such as being extremely haughty along with a destructive temper.[3] He believed that he should be regarded as the strongest fighter in the Universe and becomes obsessed with surpassing Son Goku after losing his first battle with the Z fighters. However, after Frieza's death, Vegeta unites with the heroes to thwart greater threats to the universe, most notably Cell, Majin Buu, Beerus, Zamasu, Jiren, Broly, Moro and Granolah. Throughout the series, Vegeta's role changes from villain to later as one of the heroes, while remaining a key rival to Goku.

Vegeta has been hailed as one of the most iconic characters not only in the Dragon Ball franchise, but also in manga and anime history as a whole. He is often cited as one of the most popular examples of rival characters in the industry, due to his character arc and narrative throughout Dragon Ball Z and Dragon Ball Super.

Development
[icon]	
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (November 2021)
When creating Vegeta, Toriyama originally intended for him to be a short-lived antagonist and second-tier character, with little influence to Dragon Ball's story, portraying him as such during his initial appearances. However, the character became more popular than he had expected. Thus Toriyama decided to keep Vegeta in the story for longer. He explained his surprise at the character's popularity in an interview during the release of Dragon Ball Z: Battle of Gods, "I had thought about bringing an end to [his story] as just a villain, but as I was writing, I felt that his villainous [...] warped straightforwardness was unexpectedly interesting. I couldn't imagine that a guy with this kind of hairstyle would become popular, and yet he'd get more votes than Goku in favorite-character polls."[4][5]

Toriyama initially harbored a dislike for Vegeta since he was created as a despicable character, but grew to like him as he considered the character's personality to be straightforward, therefore easier to write.[4][5][6] He also found the character "Extremely helpful to have around".[7] He stated at one point when he received a lot of fan mail telling him not to kill Vegeta, he purposely did just that.[8] After the release of Battle of Gods, Toriyama expressed interest in having Vegeta be the lead in the event of another animated feature, though he insisted this was only his intent and no decision had been made.[9]

Following the trend that names of members of the Saiyan race are puns on vegetables, Vegeta's name is a pun of the word vegetable itself.[10]

Voice actors

Ryō Horikawa has been Vegeta's Japanese voice actor in every single piece of Dragon Ball media
In the original Japanese version of the anime and all other media, Vegeta is voiced by Ryō Horikawa.[11]

In the Ocean Productions English dub, Vegeta was voiced by Brian Drummond. Drummond returned in the Funimation dub of Dragon Ball Super to voice Vegeta's Duplicate.

In Funimation (now Crunchyroll)'s in house dub, Christopher Sabat has voiced Vegeta in all Dragon Ball media, including video games. While Sabat continued to dub Vegeta's adult incarnation in Dragon Ball Z Kai,[12] Laura Bailey voiced Vegeta's child incarnation in Dragon Ball Z Kai and Justin Briner voiced Vegeta's child incarnation in Dragon Ball Super.

In Brazil, where Dragon Ball is a huge success, Vegeta has been voiced by Alfredo Rollo since his debut.

Appearances
Dragon Ball Z
Vegeta is introduced as a member of the Saiyan (サイヤ人, Saiya-jin) race. He travels to Earth with his partner Nappa to use the Dragon Balls to wish for immortality.[13] Nappa easily fights off Earth's heroes and kills Tenshinhan, Chaozu, Yamcha, and Piccolo in the process. Goku then arrives after completing his training with Kaiō-sama. Goku easily defeats Nappa who is then killed by Vegeta, for the shame of being defeated by a low class Saiyan such as Goku. Vegeta fights Goku and is severely beaten by Goku's Kaioken technique, forcing him to resort to his Ozaru form to overpower Goku, the first time he has ever transformed in single combat, but he is unable to beat the rest of the heroes due to his sustained injuries from Goku, Gohan, Krillin and Yajirobe. Exhausted and on the brink of death, he barely escapes with his life and is further humiliated by the fact that Goku pleaded with Krillin to spare his life.[14]

Vegeta then travels to planet Namek in an attempt to wish for immortality using that planet's Dragon Balls, Earth's Dragon Balls having ceased to exist following Piccolo's death, cutting the tyrant Frieza off from making the same wish in the process.[15] Upon arrival, Vegeta manages to kill many of Frieza's henchmen and also mercilessly destroys a defenseless Namekian village for their Dragon Ball. Later on Vegeta is forced to team up with Gohan, Goku, Piccolo, and Krillin so they can fight off the Ginyu Force and later Frieza. He also kills most members of the Ginyu Force after they are weakened by Goku. Ultimately, he is severely beaten and mortally wounded by Frieza; as he dies, he begs Goku to avenge him and all the other Saiyans whom he was their prince. Vegeta is later unintentionally revived with a wish to revive all of Frieza's victims from the Dragon Balls from Earth, and is subsequently sent to Earth with another wish so that he will survive Namek's impending explosion. Vegeta later learns that Goku defeated Frieza and managed to flee Namek in time.[16][17]


Vegeta's first few appearances in the anime depicted him with a radically different color scheme.
After Frieza's final defeat, Vegeta chooses to stay on Earth to await Goku's return and has a son named Trunks with Bulma.[18][19][20][21] Three years later, Vegeta finally becomes a Super Saiyan and easily destroys Android 19, sent by Dr. Gero to kill Goku.[22] However, even as a Super Saiyan, he is easily defeated by Android 18. Afterwards, Vegeta ascends beyond the Super Saiyan level while training with Future Trunks, a version of his son from an alternate timeline, in the Room of Spirit and Time (精神と時の部屋) and pummels the artificial life form Cell after he has absorbed Android 17. Vegeta's overconfidence leads him to allow Cell to absorb Android 18, upon which Cell achieves his third "perfect" form. After Vegeta fails to defeat Perfect Cell, he is forced to participate in Cell's martial arts tournament known as the Cell Games, in which he makes a crucial intervention so Gohan can overpower and defeat Cell in his Super Perfect form.[23][24]

Seven years later, Vegeta allows himself to be consumed by Babidi's evil power for his own desire to become powerful enough to fight and defeat Goku. The M on Vegeta’s forehead stands for Majin. It is a seal put by Babidi to indicate that he controls Vegeta in a certain way. It was placed through black magic. He knew that he was powerful enough to resist mind control.[25] He then goes on an indiscriminate killing spree to provoke Goku to fight him.[26] However, when the monster Majin Buu is revived as a result of the energy released from their fight, Vegeta knocks out Goku from behind after deceiving Goku by feigning a truce. Vegeta then faces Majin Buu alone and ends up sacrificing himself in an attempt to defeat Buu, dedicating his sacrifice to Bulma, Trunks, and also Goku.[27] With all other fighters dead or absorbed, Vegeta is allowed to recover his body and returns to Earth to help Goku, the last warrior remaining, against the threat of Buu. He reluctantly combines bodies with Goku using the Potara earrings, to create the fused warrior Vegito, who completely overwhelms Buu with his strength.[28][29] Eventually, Vegito allows himself to be absorbed into Buu's body to free the other heroes absorbed by Buu, but this leads to the splitting of the fusion.[30] Goku and Vegeta manage to free their allies who have been absorbed by Buu, causing him to undergo a final transformation, which results in his return to his original Kid Boo form. On the Kaiō-shin's planet, after getting revived once more thanks to the Namekian Dragon Balls, Vegeta battles Buu again to buy time for Goku to gather energy for the Genki Dama, which he uses to defeat Majin Buu once and for all. It is during t